Welcome to a central chapter in our MOOC:
JavaScript.
Or: How to learn this 20 year old,
yet very modern programming language.
JavaScript is the key to this course
and to the "killer app" you are about to develop in this MOOC.
Today, nothing is done without JavaScript.
10 years ago, JavaScript was regarded
as safety-critical, as a toy for kids.
Today, everything is done in JavaScript:
Primarily on the front-end but more and more also
on the back-end (keywords: node.js, CouchDB)
And even the data format used for
transferring information (JSON) is written in JavaScript.
This procedural language is simply a MUST.
I have a lot of experience in learning and
especially teaching programming languages.
and I can tell you:
It's all up to you!
You must feel the urge to learn JavaScript
inside out within the next two weeks.
How does it work?
You don't learn a programming language
by listening to me talking about data structures
or algorithms.
You need to learn with all your senses,
(or at least with three or four of them):
1. Learning by doing
Like in the first part of this MOOC,
you will learn JavaScript
by working through an interactive course at Codecademy,
the successful New York startup.
As our ARSnova survey showed:
This form of interactive learning in the browser
was very much appreciated by the students of the first course.
So, we are on the safe side if you learn
JavaScript at Codecademy.
However, there were also strong hints that this
intuitive way of learning somehow remained superficial.
Therefore, I offer you two additional
learning channels:
2. Learning by watching
You will be watching video tutorials about JavaScript
that I selected particularly for this MOOC.

3. Learning by reading:
You will be asked to read
Wikipedia articles about
JavaScript and its syntax thoroughly.
I repeat: You need to learn not by doing one
or the other of these assignments, but all three of them: 
Learning by doing, learning by watching, learning by reading
One after the other, in this exact order.
With homework #3 you will prove your JavaScript skills.
Post the URL of your Codecademy profile page
as proof of your progress.
The percentage shown on that page
will be converted into points for your homework (100% = 10 points).
To summarize:
Your goal is to penetrate JavaScript
up to 100 % within the next two weeks.
To get going ...
1. Create an account at Codecademy: http://www.codecademy.com/
This step is mandatory to save your progress.
2. Sign up for the JavaScript track.
3. Try to achieve 100% by working
through all interactive exercises.
After finishing, your peers will grade
you according to your progress in the track.
The deadline for submission of your homework is March, 2nd 2014
that is: in two week's time.
Good luck!